
Code examples for 
"A Complete Guide to DB2 Universal Database"
by Don Chamberlin

CHAPTER 5 INSTRUCTIONS

This chapter provides the following examples:
1. chap5: A series of SQL statements that can be run with the
   Command Line Processor.
2. salesfun: An example of a table function and some queries
   that use it.

Before executing any of these examples, you must start the DB2
server, using the DB2START command.

The detailed instructions are as follows:

1. CHAP5:

   Files:
      chap5.sql               (Example statements)
      chap5.ans               (Expected results)

   Procedure:

      Erase any existing file named chap5.out.  Then execute the
      following command which runs the test file.  The test may take
      several minutes, and the result is saved in a file named chap5.out.

      db2 -tf chap5.sql

      The output file chap5.out should match the expected output
      file chap5.ans, except that your output will contain a 
      list of 20 random numbers that is different from the
      20 random numbers in the expected output file.


2. SALESFUN:

   Files:
      salesfun.c        (source code for a table function)
      salesfun.def      (needed to compile and link on Windows or OS/2)
      salesfun.exp      (needed to compile and link on UNIX platforms)
      salesfun.sql      (SQL to install and test the table function)
      salesfun.ans      (expected results)

   Procedure:

      a. Compile and link the file salesfun.c.  The required commands
         are platform-dependent and are described in Chapter 6.

      b. Copy the executable UDF file to the database function library.
         For example:
            Under AIX: copy salesfun to sqllib/function.
            Under Windows or OS/2: copy salesfun.dll to sqllib\function.

      c. Erase any existing file named salesfun.out.  Then execute the
         following command.  The file salesfun.sql installs and tests
         the UDF, and saves its output in a file named salesfun.out.

            db2 -tf salesfun.sql

         The content of salesfun.out should match the expected output in
         the file salesfun.ans.

